So continuing on with our
discussion on sets (inaudible),
we finish off on our last video just
talking about the different methods, and
as you can see on line 61 and 62, when
you run this, you get the same results.
You get the same results using dot
difference or using the minus sign.
So which one you use depends, again,
on which one you find more readable.
In our opinion, the difference method does
make it clear that you're working on sets,
which you wouldn't necessarily see
just looking at line 62 in isolation.
So again, looking at line 61,
it's pretty obvious that .difference
is calling a method, so That's giving
you a that it's actually a set.
Now, there's also an update
difference method and
that performs the subtraction in place.
In other words,
it doesn't return a new set, but
what it does it modifies the set
upon which it is called on.
As a result it returns none.
And if you think about that,
remember the list dot sort method and
the dictionary dot update methods
cause they did the similar thing.
So see how that works.
So lets continue our code down here,
so I'll make a bit more space,
it's a little higher up on the screen.
So we'll just make a bit
of space in our output.
Then we're gonna
print(sorted[even]) print(squares).
And we'll do even .difference.
This time we're doing difference and
the score update.
And we're gonna select squares.
So, again we're passing squares
as a perimeter and even.
So, that updates a curve
on the even variable.
Now, on the even set.
So, we're gonna print and sort it even and
you should find that the changes have
been made to it, so let's run that.
So I can say that we started
out with this long set, and
then we printed out these squares.
I don't know if you can see them now
being removed all the contents from
these squares, cuz we've used Is
the difference update to remove them from
the even set and
we printed a sort of even set.
You can see those numbers
clearly aren't there anymore.
So, moving on the next thing we want
to talk about is the the symmetric
difference of two sets, so What that is
a symmetric difference of two sets is all
the members that are in one set or
the other but not both.
So being symmetric also means
that it doesn't matter which way
round you calculate the difference.
And once again what I'll, what we'll do is
we'll sort the result before printing it
just to make it easy to
interpret The result
you don't normally need to do that in
your coding for processing reasons.
We're just making it easy
on the screen for you.
So, let's just take this bit of code
here because we're going to use that and
post that down here and
I'll just comment all that code out.
Okay, so
we're gonna stand a code there for sets.
So, what we're going to do now is the
symmetric difference so we're gonna Print
symmetric in there.
Symmetric even minus squares.
And we'll do print sorter.
Sorter is just for our eyes but we have to
do this to get the symmetric difference
Symmetric difference squares.
Thought so.
And we can also do a print symmetric
squares minus even.
Print squares.symmetric
underscore difference even.
We could do the same thing there if
we want to, we can sort that as well.
Just to make sure that it's
going to come out the same way.
Like I say, we run that.
The output for
both is absolutely identical.
So it doesn't matter which order we
run it on we get the same results.
And I just remove sort of the,
if we run that again.
It says symmetric difference
can be thought of
as the opposite of intersection
which we covered earlier.
The intersection of the two sets was 4,
6, and 16.
So the symmetric difference is the set
of everything except those three values.
Now symmetric difference can also
be performed using the carrot.
You know, the sort of up arrow symbol,
which is just really another way
of doing exactly the same thing.
There's no performance advantage
with either method, so
again it's really just
a matter of preference.
What we'd suggest generally is using
the methods to make it clear that you're
dealing with sets unless your program
was only or mainly using sets,
in which case the shorter operators, again
we're talking about In a carrot the and,
and the mono sign will be clearing
up because of the context.
Now it may seem to be a quirky you know,
so I took the sorted out and
when we ran it we got the same results.
So, that's a little bit of a quirk
with a symmetric difference.
When we did even Dot symmetric
dot difference squares
we have to sort the result to
say the number is in order.
When we did these, the symmetric
difference between squares and
even result set printed out in order.
So why that happens
we're not really sure so
we're not sure if it happens with
all Python implementations and
it's certainly not documented behavior so
if you did notice it.
But don't rely on this for your program.
So in other words,
if you did want that to be sorted.
And for some reason it's sorting
without actual use of the sort method.
You may actually want to put that in there
anyway because it might be a bug they fix
in the future versions of Python So,
the last
set difference method that we mentioned is
symmetric and it's called difference in
It performs really just like the line 67
with a difference update, but obviously in
this case it's using the symmetric
difference instead of the difference
It updates the set that it's been called
upon rather than reset as you saw when we
talked about the difference updates
as you saw again on line 67.
Now there's two ways to
remove items from the set.
We can use discard and remove.
The only difference between them is
that removes would raise an error
if the island to be
removed doesn't exist and
whereas discard won't actually
raise an error in that scenario.
So let's see some code that showing that.
I'm just going to comment
this last bit of code out.
And I'll just remove this sort of there.
We don't really need it anymore so
I'll get rid of those.
See what we're starting out with and
now we can start removing some.
So I'm going to do squares.
.discard 4.
Squares dot remove, remove 16.
And squares.discard.
8, it should
show no,
it should be no error does nothing.
And obviously we're Because obviously
eight isn't in the set as you can
see the set defined on line 73 and
we can do print squares to see
that the 416 were removed but
then if we do squares Dot remove
eight you should get an error.
First thing I need to fix is error
up online, 75, that should fix.
So if we run that now you can
see we did get the three.
As you can see that we
started out we had 16,
9, 4, 6 and 25 and you can see that 16 and
4 are now removed from the last attempt
which was from line 86, and
then we tried to use squares remove.
We actually got an error and again that's
the difference between the discard on line
89 because the silent didn't return,
didn't raise an error.
But the one on line 87 you can see
the remove does raise an error.
That's the main difference,
remove does raise an error.
whereas discard doesn't.
If you want to use remove,
to safely use that,
you should check the items in the set
before attempting to remove it.
We would do something
like this to make sure.
We put "if 8 in squares" and squares
don't remove 8, as you can see there.
If you run that This time
we don't get an error and
that's because we're checking first to
see where that eights in the set and
it wasn't in this case so therefore
the code on line 88 didn't get executed.
So probably the next
question you're asking
Now it would be why do you wanna use
remove if discard seems much safer.
Well the reason is,
sometimes you may want an error
to be raised if an operation is
being attempted that shouldn't be.
So when attempting to discard eight,
there's no way indication
that anything's wrong.
And it's not possible to
take any action if eight
should not be deleted from the zero or
could not be deleted from the set.
So we're gonna look at exceptions later
in the course so don't worry too much
about this next bit of code it's really
just to show that we can trip an error and
take some other action if we tip to remove
an item that doesn't exist from a set.
Sometimes removing them for
that reason is more useful so
to do that we can come back here And
we can put try.
>> [NOISE]
>> And
the codes going to be squares dot
remove eight, and put accept.
Key error, print,
item eight.
Is not member of sets
now if you fan run that to
the awesome eighties of the set.
Okay so this is try try and receptors.
Exceptions that are used in path in which
we won't be going through the details now,
but later in the course
you'll see more about those.
The point is we're able to trap
the error and do some processing,
which in this case consisted
only of printing a message but
it could be anything if the removal
failed for some reason.
Now the same is true when attempting
to access keys in a dictionary
using the square brackets
rather than using a get, so
in other words using [NOISE] When we use.
Trying to get access to keys in
the dictionary using the square
brackets instead of using get.
Or they get is very useful,
because we might need to take
action if the key is not present.
So that's the reason that partham also
provides a way to raise an exception
in error if the key is not present so.
Basically the same concept here for a set.
Okay, so we've now seen how to create
a set using either a set [INAUDIBLE] and
closing the members in clearly brackets or
the set constructors.
You have also seen how to add and
remove members.
As well as creating new sets that are the
union and intersection of two other sets.
We can subtract sets from each
other as well, which you say.
And in the same way that you can create
a set from a list by passing the list
to the set constructor,
you can actually go the other way.
So in other words you can create a list
from a set using the list constructor.
In fact we did something similar
by passing the sets to the sorted
function which will turn to list.
So the last two operations with
sets are is subset and is superset.
Now those will be used to test if one set
is a sub or super Set of the other set.
Now one set is a sub set of
another if all the members
are contained in the other set.
Now similarly,
one set is a super set of another if it
contains all the other sets and members.
So if we remove the odd squares from our
project, which we're about to do now.
We can see these two methods in action.
So what I'm going to do is just
comment this out Encrypt this code.
But we'll just code that as, well so
we can stop down at the bottom.
Now what we're going to do for
these square.
We'll just make that 4, 6, and 16.
We'll leave the other ones out.
And we can do something like
if squares dot is subset even.
We're gonna
do print squares is a subset Copy and we
can also do even dot superset
is superset squares.
Print is a super set of squares.
So you can run that.
Squares is a subset of even.
Even is a superset of squares.
So again, a subset.
One set is a subset of another if all its
members are contained in the other set.
And for superset, one set is a superset
of another If it contains all the other
set's members then you can just
say that we've used the example
of inverting the results to be able to
show that squares is a subset of even and
even is a superset of squares.
So sets are really not
used as often as lists.
Dictionaries, but
they can still be used, can be useful
as hopefully you've seen in this code.
So our challenge we're about to
do is gonna show you how they
can provide a quick way to modify data.
Now before we start the challenge though,
there's one more type of set available to
us in Python It's called a frozen set.
And a frozen set is a immutable set
which of course can't be changed.
So, when being unmutable at least we can
use a frozen set as a dictionary key,
which is good.
And we can also add a frozen
set as a member of a set.
Now keep in mind there's no add methods,
there's no add, remove, or
discard methods available
with a frozen set.
Once created, it can't be changed.
And obviously that's the reason
they haven't added those methods.
So to use those, It'll
give you something like even
equals frozen set range 0 100 2.
And print even
even dot add three notice that
the doesn't come up and if we run
that we're getting an error because frozen
set object has no attribute for add.
And as I mentioned, it hasn't got
those methods because it's immutable.
Once we create it, we can't modify it.
Now other than an inability to add or
remove members,
frozen sets behave just like regular
sets and can be used to create unions,
intersections, and
can be subtracted from other sets.
Now you can't call difference_update or
symmetric_difference_update
on a frozen set, of course,
because A frozen set isn't mutable.
What you can do is you can pass a
parameter to a different underscore update
core on a regular set.
Now before we move onto the challenge,
we looked at many operators that
do the same job as the methods.
And there's a nice table in
the path documentation for
2.7 showing the methods and
the equivalent operators
Not only use the table that was much of
the text no longer applies to Python 3.
So that's important so ignore the text and
just see the refer to the table.
So I'm just gonna bring that up on
the screen so you can see There and
we're gonna put this link
in the resources section.
So refer to that as well, but you can see
that's giving you a good overview of what
the various operations are for sense.
And just out of interest, the same
information is available in the Tree
documentation but it's not laid out in
a helpful table than it is there and
I think it is really quite helpful being
able to see that all getting there.
So probably I could link for
you to bookmark.
All right, it's time for a challenge.
Let's go back to our code and
we're gonna create a new file.
[NOISE]
>> We're gonna copy and paste challenging.
So, here's the challenge.
Create a program that takes some text and
returns a list of all the characters
in the text that are not vowels.
Sorted in alphabetical order.
And you can either answer
the text from the keyboard or
initialize a string
variable with a the string.
Now obviously we wanted to use sets.
So this is where the whole idea
of this is we're using sets.
So you should be using
a set with this challenge.
Okay so, go away and
see if you can figure out that challenge.
And when you're ready to see the solution,
come back and we're make a start on it.
Let's have a look at that.
Let's type some text in.
Sampletext equals "python is
a very powerful language".
So, how would we do that?
We would type "vowels equals Frozenset,
aeiou.
Alternatively, you could have
done something like this
vowels = ("a",
"e", "i", "o", "u").
But thank you, that takes more topics so
the one that for
instance we dont that it was way quicker.
So, then we do funnel set, equals set.
Sample text, dot difference
Print final set [NOISE]
>> And
then we can finally do something
like final lists equals sorted.
FInal set and print.
[NOISE] On a list.
So if you run that.
And I think I need to
[INAUDIBLE] some [INAUDIBLE].
So I need to go back to my other file.
I'm actually running
the wrong program file.
Unless you just run this
one here as well first.
Run challenge.
Just to confirm that it works.
So you can see that the first line
shows the answer to the sorted version
of the sort.
And the second line as you can see.
That's in alphabetical order.
Noting the upper case and lower case and
spaces have got a different ordering
than the lower case equivalence.
So because sets don't contain duplicates,
we get the list that we wanted with each
character only occurring once on
the list as you can see there.
And we've used a frozen set for
the vals because the members
shouldn't change in English.
If you wanted to test say for the worst
language and we add w and y to the set.
Then the frozen wouldn't be
appropriate in this scenario.
Just to go back to that other area,
that was coming up because
I hadn't come into that line out which was
invalid because we're using a frozen set.
So that's actually the challenge.
That's any few lines of code and
again I just want to reinforce how
powerful Python is to be able to do things
that are relatively complex
in such a few lines of code.
It's really a fantastic language for that.
Ok, so that's the end of this video and
the end of this section, actually.
So I've worked on quite a few
things in this section trying
to get dictionaries and
sets out of the way.
And we're now done with that.
In the next section we're going to start
working on input and output in Python, so
see you in the next section.